# Characteristics 1

## First inspiration: Jung

Each character will have a set of characteristics and skills. I like the skills being specialization of characteristics.

I wanted to start with the Jungiang traits. Roughly, Jung defines 3 kinds of attributes. If we adopt the perspective of [Myers-Briggs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myers–Briggs_Type_Indicator) (without adding the 4th trait), we can have:

* Introversion/Extraversion, which is the place from where people are taking their energy;
* Intuitive/Sensing, which is the perception of time, intuitive living in the future and being able to anticipate, and sensing living in the present;
* Thinkful/Feeling, which is the approach of conflict, or based on intellectual facts or based on feeling for people.

In all cases, as the "context" (understand "the enterprise the PC are into") requires certain details on the "mind characteristics", we have to find a way to have balanced characteristics.

## First rules

Let's take an example to enable to reflection. Sandra is a woman and she has an argument with Vincent, a man. Vincent is "Feel" oriented whereas Sandra is more "Think". Let us suppose that we have just one scale: Feel + Think should be a fixed number and Sandra would have much more chances to succeed in an analysis based on Think than an analysis based on Feel (and the reverse for Vincent).

However:

* Those characteristics should both exist in both profiles and be linked together in some way;
* There is no reason for which those characteristics may be limited.

So we can imagine the following rules:

* For your PC, at PC creation, you have one roll for Think/Feel: **roll 3D6** to get X;
* Choose if X goes to Feel or to Think;
* Put 18-X in the other characteristic.

The result would be for Sandra 3+6+4=13:

Feel | Think 
--- | ---
| 5 | 13 |

And for Vincent, 1+4+5=10:

Feel | Think
--- | ---
10 | 8

This can enable the standard D20 roll against some threshold to succeed to not in a certain challenge.

_August 25 2020_

