# September 2020

---

<a name="004"></a>

## The big director's roll

Well, I begin to play with dice at work, trying to predict what will happen.

I faced today a really interesting case. Let me create the scene (maybe it is a wargame rather than a RPG): You have two teams, one is good and the other is bad. In a contract, each team wrote half of a document to present to a prospect. The overall material is bad, undoubtedly. The prospect screams saying: "what kind of s**t is it?"

At first, the hierarchy laughs, saying : "oh yes, no problem, everything's OK, just this stupid prospect that doesn't understand how smart we are. Well, after a while, probably after tectonic management movements (because the prospect reaction has a tendency to climb up the ladder), everyone would like to find a guilty person.

For sure, the good team would be a good choice. Because, if the bad team survived, that means they have a specific protection charm that is not in line with their skills: maybe the charm is **Not My Fault**. So the attention gets to the good team that did a good job. The director of the bad team has a meeting tomorrow with the director of the good team. Indeed, as the team leader of the good team predicted it with his **It Smells like Crap** psionic power. Working from that prediction, the good team prepared the place for battle with many traps that are reinforced by the **Hidden Truth** potion.

I calculated the odds of the bad director: 25% of being able to convince to good director, after all bonuses and penalties applied. I rolled a 98! Uh! Critical failure...

We'll see tomorrow if my Oracle begins to work!

_September 7 2020_

---

<a name="003"></a>

## Getting public?

For now, this blog is quite hidden, which is nice. That enables me to dig into the recent (or less recent) RPG story. I kinda like to read the various game systems and compare them.

I went recently through old stuff of mine: **Simulacres**, for instance which is a French game as I dislike them. The game system could have been innovative, but instead it is complicated and even a bit pretentious. I really dislike this feature in French personality: bragging as if French people had invented the hot water (French expression). Nevertheless, I love France and the French. But I would like to see more really creative stuff, playable stuff, modest, optimized, efficient, creative, straight to the point stuff, than those crappy "I am the best and I teach you" products.

In the past, many game designers have indulged the pleasure of farting higher than their asses (other French expression, rather sympathetic this one), and I dislike it. I would say that Croc is probably one of a kind, that did not, or at least I don't remember. Maybe also the one who created the French RPG where you play lycanthropes. I'll find the name back.

Well, the fact is, there are many RPGs that I find unplayable, but they don't feel as if they were lecturing me on something. That's the power of Americans. There is so much competition, that people try their best to do the best product. I see also a certain kind of "focus" in some American games. We're here for something particular: role-playing in a certain universe, and not benefiting from that tribune to insinuate political of social-crap stuff. A game is a game and no moral lesson from your grand-pa.

_September 7 2020_

---

<a name="002"></a>

## The winning couple for a RPG starting now with no preparation?

I analyzed extensively the [Risus](http://www.risusiverse.com) RPG (which is short so that didn't take much time) and created a [flowchart](https://github.com/orey/jdr/tree/master/Risus-fr) to sum-up this micro-game (in French). Yes, my intention is to translate stuff when I can and when the license enables it. France is a great country for RPGs, even if I often find the French RPG a bit patronizing... As the French maybe.

Anyway, in order to play without any preparation, nor at the game mechanics level, or  at the scenario level, maybe the winning couple is **[Risus](http://www.risusiverse.com) + [Mythic](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/20798/Mythic-Game-Master-Emulator)**.

Risus is a funny game with very simple game mechanics, that are similar to some other mini-RPGs such as Cthulhu Dark ([French version](https://orey.github.io/cthulhu-dark-fr)) or the children game FirstFable ([French version](https://orey.github.io/premierefable)) or even the very micro-game Roll for Shoes ([French version](https://github.com/orey/jdr/tree/master/RollForShoes-fr)).

I think the emergence of mini-RPGs is the proof of some RPG players getting old. When you are young, you are keen to work hard in very large rule books. When you are older, you can run on the accumulated capacities of GM-ing that you have accumulated for so many years.

The problem of older players is, for sure, the availability of other players. When everyone has its life, it's not so easy to meet. So, quite often, the sessions are scarcer, and with less players (unless you enroll your own children). For that, simple game engines can be a good way to address the rule part preparation. Remains the adventure itself for which you can use many tools: generators or even GM emulators if you really don't have the time to prepare a story.

Concerning GM emulation, I think it would be great to use it inside a pre-existing universe. I have to investigate on that.

_September 7 2020_

---

<a name="001"></a>

## A very creative period

It's been a long time since I did not have a look to the RPG world, almost 25 years! For sure, I discovered that a multitude of RPGs and RPG engines were created in 25 years, and some of them seem to me as particularly notable.

One of them is [Mythic GM Emulator](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/20798/Mythic-Game-Master-Emulator). This engine defined a new way to envisage to RPG by playing adventures with a level of randomness and possibly with no GM. I will write more about that game soon. I must admit that, a long time ago, I know many players that would have been greatly satisfied with that kind of engine.

This creative period is very interesting because, for the RPG player and GM, there are plenty of offers, and most of them quite affordable. Many are Creative Commons or open source, or free. There is also the dominant position of [DriveThruRPG](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/) as a global dealer of RPGs.

I can see many great evolutions in the RPG universe in those last years :

* The development of Internet enabled many independant authors to create very interesting material, very often for a limited price.
* The development of print on demand enabled also to differentiate the selling of PDFs from the selling of printed manuals, which is great, considering the disappearance of many gaming shops (at least in France).
* The SRD 3.5 opened the door to re-interpretations of old school ways of playing RPGs, which can be a good thing. Games should offer many variations and attract several kinds of players.

On this topic, I started reading the blog of James Maliszewski, [Grogniardia](https://grognardia.blogspot.com). It is very intesting and enables me to catch on with the RPG world. There are some good moments, in this blog, about the old school RPG gaming, mostly based on the the 2 first editions of D&D (OD&D and Holmes mainly). Even if I was never a player of D&D, the old school is talking to me. The age, maybe. The passion for CoC also where I find the same kind of objectives: play with not so many rules, have fun, and improvise. Maybe we are not so far from each other after all.

The fact is, the period from 2000 to 2010 seems very creative, whereas I am not so sure that the following decade was (the one that is terminating now). I have to investigate.

In some dimensions, I understand old school fanatics to be sad that things changed. But on the other hand, we still have many choices in the offer, so much actually that searching for the product that corresponds to you can be quite long. But I think we should not complain. It is just a new era of RPG with several generations playing the same kind of games and so expecting different things from it.

For sure, everyone is not playing a single "universal" game, but, without being a specialist, when I see all the supplements produced by Paizo on PathFinder, I wonder if most players are not still concentrated on heroic-fantasy games around the D&D rules (being 3rd edition or another).

_September 7 2020_

