# Characteristics 2

## Present and Future

Let us continue the reflection started in the [previous entry](20200825-3.md), and address the Intuitive/Sensing Jungian traits.

We'll name those traits, currently: Present and Future.

The mechanism is quite similar from the one of Feel and Think:

* For your PC, at PC creation, you have one roll for Think/Feel: **roll 3D6** to get X;
* Choose if X goes to Present or to Future;
* Put 18-X in the other characteristic.

That leads to the following tables for Sandra and Vincent.

Sandra is living in the Present. Her player rolls 4+5+6=15 and assign the value to Present.

Characteristic | Present | Future 
--- | --- | ---
**Value** |  15 | 3 |

Vincent is rolling 3+2+7=12 and assign that value to Future, which implies that Present = 18-12=6.

Characteristic | Present | Future 
--- | --- | ---
**Value** |  6 | 12 |

## Low values

Indeed, as it is possible to do 3x6 with 3D6, and the other facet of the same trait is Y=18-X, that means that Y can be null. And, considering that a D20 roll with a value of 1 (or 1 and 2) would always be a failure, that would mean that the value of the lowest characteristic could not be less than 3 (as in D&D).

So if we have X=3D6, instead of having Y=18-X, we should have Y=20-X for the case where we access an extreme character to be 18, or if we consider that no characterstic should be inferior to 3, we should have Y=21-X. In case X=18, then Y=3, wich means that a D20 could be 1 = critical failure, 2=failure and 3 would be a success.

I have to think about all that cause maybe this is mpre inwpired by CoC than by D&D...


